# Automatic Fall Detection Cavity For Elderly People using MEMS
We Mamindla Mounika,Pedditi Satvika and Parankusham Vaishnavi have developed the Project named “Automatic fall detection cavity for elderly people using MEMS”.
# Project Description 
  The project is named “Automatic fall detection cavity for elderly people using MEMS”. With elderly who live alone, not being found for hours after a fall is quite common and drastically increases the significance of fall-induced injuries. With an aging baby Boomer population, the incidence of falls will only rise in the next few decades. The objective of this project was to design and create a fall detection and prevention system for the elderly. It can notify the concerned person or family member whenever it detects any fall and can reduce the risk of delayed medical attention. This has led to the development of automated fall detection systems.This project has been designed to develop an intelligent, reliable and cost efficient fall detection and alert system and a fall detection system that is user friendly and without causing disturbance to activities of daily living of elderly people.In this project the MEMS sensor includes built-in features such as free fall, wake up, tap, motion/stationary and activity/inactivity detection with two flexible interrupt pins. These features reduce the complex algorithm development effort one needs for the fall detection systems. The combination of these in-built features could detect the fall of a person which makes the ADXL335 3-axis acceleration sensor suitable for this application. The built-in features prohibit the requirement to access the acceleration data continuously from the sensor in order to perform complex computations to realize a fall detection system.

# Abstract 
Falling down is one among the major causes for medical problems that are faced by the elderly people. Elder people undergo the risk of serious harm due to fall. Many elderly people can suffer unintentional falls due to weakness or dizziness. The major consequences are not related to the falling, but rather due to unassisted or treated with delay. To provide better living for the elderly people and those with special assistance, it is necessary to develop a monitoring system which alerts the care givers of any emergency assistance. In this project, we propose to develop a low-cost fall detection system to precisely detect an event when an elderly person accidentally falls. The fall detection algorithm compares the acceleration with lower fall threshold and upper fall threshold values to accurately detect a fall event. The post-fall recognition module is the combination of posture recognition and vertical velocity estimation that has been added to our proposed method to enhance the performance and accuracy. In case of a fall, our device will display it on LCD and produces a voice alert. The data is then uploaded in the IOT server which is being monitored by the caretaker.The problems mentioned in the existing system can be overcome using this proposed system. This system provides an alert to the care takers or other people about the fall occurrence of the elderly people or person who needs to be monitored. Here micro controller is known as the heart of the entire system. In this system an MEMS Accelerometer is used, which will detect the fall of elderly person. The Accelerometer is able to measure the static acceleration and dynamic acceleration of gravity in sensing applications and shock or vibration respectively. Here we have used the ADXL335 which is a 3-axis accelerometer sensor which has analog output with ±3g measurement range. It also has predetermined threshold axis values. If the acceleration of the body condition exceeds the threshold value, the system will recognize the fall condition. On detecting the fall of the person, an intimation message can be sent through IOT module implemented with controller. Once the system is implemented, the care taker will get the user name and password for IOT data access. Also a voice alert is given so that anyone from surroundings can help. 
 



 

